- [ ] title page
- [ ] copyrights
- [x] dedication
- [ ] contents
- [ ] foreword
- [x] acknowledgements





Section – 1 –  Tools
 
1.Types of writing tools
fountain pens
Nibs
Markers
2.Nibs
why a nib over fountain pens.
Complete control over the ink
Feedback and Flexible
Sharpening
Inks freedom,easy to clean and maintain,cheaper
Hairline to Shade Contrast
How a nib works.
Types and comparison of nibs.
Squarecut vs oblique cut
Nibs size chart.
Preparing nibs
loading nib- precautions while writing,placing reservoir tips
Diy reservoir for Mitchell nibs.
Troubleshooting with nibs, maintenance.
Sharpening nibs - js link
Assembling the nib and holder
3.Inks
Types of Inks
Ink viscosity vs flow in nib vs width of nib and vent hole
Speed vs ink flow
Hairlines vs Ink
4.Paper
Types of paper
Seizing-types
Gum sandarac,Hairspray
5.Holder
Types of Holders-comparison.
5.Hairlines
Nib sharpness.
Lightness of Hand.
Ink viscosity.
Paper
6.Miscellaneous Tools:
Blotter,cover sheet.
Ruler
Ruling pen
Synthetic tip brushes
Sandpaper, wet n dry paper and Arkansas stone
Section - ii
How to hold a pen
Types of Strokes - push and pull
Pen width vs stroke width. - stroke width formula
Understand pen angle - shade control by direction and angle
Types of letters and Drawing guidelines
Proportions of a letter.
Basic drills - vertical lines at 3 nibs apart.
Italic history- characteristics
Minuscule letters groups
Majuscule letters - Roman
Drills
Section - iii - Letterform Analysis.
Pen Angles experiments and proportions experiments.
Width of the letter
Letter “i” analysis, serifs Analysis.
Letter “o” analysis
Ascenders,Descenders Analysis.
Secret curves
u,n group analysis
Comparison with serif round
Branching analysis.-branching position vs roundness of shoulder, what if low branch and round shoulder,point where tangential Meets intersectional - symmetry analysis
Effect of  change in width on branching.
Symmetry Analysis.- oval,n
Flipped ribbon-shoulder analysis
a,b group analysis
Diagonal letters analysis - Shade Harmony .
Spacing Analysis
Letters personal space.
Harmony in letterforms.
Majuscules Analysis - copperplate comparison.
Section - IV - Variations.
Proportions-width,ascenders
Changing Letterforms structures-
pen angle - shade hierarchy
Waisting techniques-buildup,Pressure, twisting, combination techniques with using finger, wrist,combinational movements.
Build-up letters
Gestural way
Creating variations
Use of different tools- ruling pens,brushes.
Shape of ascenders
Gene editing- fusion of scripts- mix of characteristics
Inspiration from fonts.
Inspiration from geometrical shapes- counter shapes
Hairline branching
Ligatures
Pointed pen / brush variations

Section - V - Resources.

_________________________________________________________________________
->>>sharpness,unity,freedom.
Colour theory
Use of centred ruler in composition
Project ideas:
-> Kraft paper sign boards of lloyd
-> calligrams
_______________________________________


Handwriting manual -alfred fairbank
Italic Calligraphy and Handwriting_ Exercises and Text - lloyd Reynolds

Italic Way to Beautiful Handwriting, Cursive and Calligraphic - Fred eager

Pen lettering - Ann camp

Italic Letters: Calligraphy & Handwriting- Inga dubay and Barbara getty

Arrighi's manual of la-operina

MASTERS OF THE ITALIC LETTER, TWENTY-TWO EXEMPLARS FROM THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY - Kathryn a atkins

Italic rhythm - Satwinder sehmi


