# Tools:

K: What tools do I need to bring for training? I have lots of amazing pens, Inks and papers and several other supplies.
N: Having lots of tools is useless, whatsup

We need a Pen, Paper and Ink.

Pens - we can broadly classify calligraphy pens based on the ink flow functionality.
Dip pens
Fountain pens
Markers

Dip Pens: As the name suggest we write by dipping the pen in the ink.It usually consist of nib, holder
Examples:

Why Dip pen Nibs over other like fountain pens or markers?

complete control over the ink:
It provides freedom over choosing the ink viscosity, Mix your own ink as per your requirement.
You can use all kinds of inks without fear of ink is going to block the pen, Few inks comes with adhesives mixed in them to make ink quick drying and waterproof which blocks the fountain pen.
Complete freedom over wide range of inks like watercolours,gouaches even acrylic, as soon as you finish working with them simply place them under running water, thats it. Your nib is super clean.
Nibs are much cheaper when compared to fountain pen. You can buy multiple sizes of nib with the same cost of you buy one fountain pen
Nibs are for serious calligrapher, we can sharpen the nib for finer hairlines which is not possible in case of pens like pilot parallel pen.
Maintaining nibs are much easier compared to fountain pen.

Construction of a nib:

(Picture of a nib showing different parts)

How a nib works?

Nib works on capillary action(describe principle), liquid flows from high pressure zone to low pressure.

Vent hole of nib creates vaccum, which creates low pressure zone,helps in holding the ink.

Now the ink which is at vent hole flows down when we release the pressure, this happens when we write.

Key Takeaway:

Control action is provided by Vent hole.

Preparing a nib for first time:
To protect nibs from rusting Manufacturer coat the nibs with varnish and some kind of oil.

Oil on metal repels the ink as it is water-based resulting in poor ink-flow , no control over the ink. (Think of water droplet on lotus leave)

To make ink flow well we need to remove the oil,. This can be done by many ways:

Usually nibs with top reservoir, pointed pen don't need any special prepping, they get better with writing one or two lines by themselves.

But you can try some saliva.

Potato method:

Fire method:

Pro tips: don't touch the tip of the nib with fingers.

Loading the nib with ink
-dipping in the ink
-loading with brush

Before you write make sure there is no ink inner side or top of the nib, ink is located only at venthole.

Try not to over load the nib, 50-75% of reservoir is ideal.

If you are dipping in the ink well,try to Leave excess ink by tapping the nib to the wall of ink well

Or you can give gentle flick into ink well to drop excess ink.